README.md, before:

# Switchblade

Switchblade is an integration testing framework for Cloud Foundry v2b
buildpacks. It enables test authors to write tests once, and then run them
either against a real Cloud Foundry, or their local Docker daemon.

In either case, the author should only need to change the values passed to
`switchblade.NewPlatform` to swap one platform for the other. No other changes
to the test suite should be required.

In addition to the goal of platform swapping, Switchblade enables better
testing of buildpack functionality including offline support and
service-binding integrations. Both of these features are supported in a manner
that best aligns with how a real buildpack user would use those features. That
is to say, the Cloud Foundry platform only uses Cloud Foundry, and the Docker
platform only uses Docker. There is no other "magic".

## Examples

### Running with Cloud Foundry

```go
package integration_test

import (
  "log"
  "testing"

  "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade"

  . "github.com/onsi/gomega"
  . "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade/matchers"
)

func TestCloudFoundry(t *testing.T) {
  var (
    Expect     = NewWithT(t).Expect
    Eventually = NewWithT(t).Eventually
  )

  // Create an instance of a Cloud Foundry platform. A GitHub token is required
  // to make API requests to GitHub fetching buildpack details.
  platform, err := switchblade.NewPlatform(switchblade.CloudFoundry, "<github-api-token>")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Deploy an application called "my-app" onto Cloud Foundry with source code
  // located at /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to the following `cf`
  // command:
  //   cf push my-app -p /path/to/my/app
  deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Assert that the deployment logs contain a line that contains the substring
  // "Installing dependency..."
  Expect(logs).To(ContainLines(ContainSubstring("Installing dependency...")))

  // Assert that the deployment results in an application instance that serves
  // "Hello, world!" over HTTP.
  Eventually(deployment).Should(Serve(ContainSubstring("Hello, world!")))

  // Delete the application from the platform.
  Expect(platform.Delete.Execute("my-app")).To(Succeed())
}
```

### Running with Docker

```go
package integration_test

import (
  "log"
  "testing"

  "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade"

  . "github.com/onsi/gomega"
  . "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade/matchers"
)

func TestDocker(t *testing.T) {
  var (
    Expect     = NewWithT(t).Expect
    Eventually = NewWithT(t).Eventually
  )

  // Create an instance of a Docker platform. A GitHub token is required to
  // make API requests to GitHub fetching buildpack details.
  platform, err := switchblade.NewPlatform(switchblade.Docker, "<github-api-token>")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Deploy an application called "my-app" onto Docker with source code
  // located at /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to the following `cf`
  // command, but running locally on your Docker daemon:
  //   cf push my-app -p /path/to/my/app
  deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Assert that the deployment logs contain a line that contains the substring
  // "Installing dependency..."
  Expect(logs).To(ContainLines(ContainSubstring("Installing dependency...")))

  // Assert that the deployment results in an application instance that serves
  // "Hello, world!" over HTTP.
  Eventually(deployment).Should(Serve(ContainSubstring("Hello, world!")))

  // Delete the application from the platform.
  Expect(platform.Delete.Execute("my-app")).To(Succeed())
}
```

### Specifying buildpacks: `WithBuildpacks`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. Only use the "ruby_buildpack" and the "go_buildpack".
// This is similar to the following `cf` command:
//   cf push my-app -p /path/to/my/app -b ruby_buildpack -b go_buildpack
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithBuildpacks("ruby_buildpack", "go_buildpack").
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Specifying environment variables: `WithEnv`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to running the following `cf`
// command:
//   cf set-env my-app SOME_KEY some-value
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithEnv(map[string]string{
    "SOME_KEY": "some-value",
  }).
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Disabling internet access: `WithoutInternetAccess`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This will disable internet access for the staging
// process.
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithoutInternetAccess().
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Specifying service bindings: `WithServices`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to running the following `cf`
// commands:
//   cf create-user-provided-service my-app-my-service -p '{"password": "its-a-secret!"}'
//   cf bind-service my-app my-app-my-service
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithService(map[string]switchblade.Service{
    "my-service": {
      "password": "its-a-secret!",
    },
  }).
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Specifying a start command: `WithStartCommand`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to running the following `cf`
// commands:
//   cf push my-app -c "start my-app"
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithStartCommand("start my-app").
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

## Other utilities

### Random name generation: `RandomName`

The `switchblade.RandomName` helper can generate random names. This is useful
for keeping your applications reasonably namespaced in the shared platform. The
names generated will include the prefix `switchblade-` following by a
[ULID](https://github.com/ulid/spec).

```go
name, err := switchblade.RandomName()
if err != nil {
  log.Fatal(err)
}

fmt.Println(name) // Outputs: switchblade-<some-ulid>
```

Commit message:

Add RuntimeLogs() method for retrieving application runtime logs
Provides a platform-agnostic API for retrieving runtime logs from
deployed applications after staging completes. This complements the
existing staging logs returned by platform.Deploy.Execute() by adding
access to post-deployment application output.

This change also refactors the log fetching logic introduced in commit
8fb0d65 by extracting a shared FetchRecentLogs() helper function,
eliminating code duplication between staging failure logs and runtime
logs retrieval.

Key additions:
- Add Deployment.RuntimeLogs() method for runtime log retrieval
- Extract cloudfoundry.FetchRecentLogs() shared helper function
- Add comprehensive tests for both CloudFoundry and Docker platforms
- Update README with RuntimeLogs() usage examples

Benefits:
- Clear separation between staging logs (build-time) and runtime logs
- Tests can verify application startup, service connections, module loading
- Simplifies buildpack integration tests (no manual cf/docker logs commands)
- Consolidates log fetching logic (DRY principle)
- Self-documenting API with explicit method names

Use cases:
- Testing application startup messages
- Verifying service connection logs (Redis, PostgreSQL, etc.)
- Checking module/extension loading (PHP extensions, npm packages)
- Validating runtime configuration
- Debugging runtime errors

Example usage:
  deployment, stagingLogs, err := platform.Deploy.Execute(name, path)
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // stagingLogs contains build-time output
  Expect(stagingLogs).To(ContainSubstring("Installing dependencies"))

  // RuntimeLogs() retrieves application output
  runtimeLogs, err := deployment.RuntimeLogs()
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())
  Expect(runtimeLogs).To(ContainSubstring("Application started"))

README.md, after:

# Switchblade

Switchblade is an integration testing framework for Cloud Foundry v2b
buildpacks. It enables test authors to write tests once, and then run them
either against a real Cloud Foundry, or their local Docker daemon.

In either case, the author should only need to change the values passed to
`switchblade.NewPlatform` to swap one platform for the other. No other changes
to the test suite should be required.

In addition to the goal of platform swapping, Switchblade enables better
testing of buildpack functionality including offline support and
service-binding integrations. Both of these features are supported in a manner
that best aligns with how a real buildpack user would use those features. That
is to say, the Cloud Foundry platform only uses Cloud Foundry, and the Docker
platform only uses Docker. There is no other "magic".

## Examples

### Running with Cloud Foundry

```go
package integration_test

import (
  "log"
  "testing"

  "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade"

  . "github.com/onsi/gomega"
  . "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade/matchers"
)

func TestCloudFoundry(t *testing.T) {
  var (
    Expect     = NewWithT(t).Expect
    Eventually = NewWithT(t).Eventually
  )

  // Create an instance of a Cloud Foundry platform. A GitHub token is required
  // to make API requests to GitHub fetching buildpack details.
  platform, err := switchblade.NewPlatform(switchblade.CloudFoundry, "<github-api-token>")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Deploy an application called "my-app" onto Cloud Foundry with source code
  // located at /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to the following `cf`
  // command:
  //   cf push my-app -p /path/to/my/app
  deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Assert that the deployment logs contain a line that contains the substring
  // "Installing dependency..."
  Expect(logs).To(ContainLines(ContainSubstring("Installing dependency...")))

  // Assert that the deployment results in an application instance that serves
  // "Hello, world!" over HTTP.
  Eventually(deployment).Should(Serve(ContainSubstring("Hello, world!")))

  // Delete the application from the platform.
  Expect(platform.Delete.Execute("my-app")).To(Succeed())
}
```

### Running with Docker

```go
package integration_test

import (
  "log"
  "testing"

  "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade"

  . "github.com/onsi/gomega"
  . "github.com/cloudfoundry/switchblade/matchers"
)

func TestDocker(t *testing.T) {
  var (
    Expect     = NewWithT(t).Expect
    Eventually = NewWithT(t).Eventually
  )

  // Create an instance of a Docker platform. A GitHub token is required to
  // make API requests to GitHub fetching buildpack details.
  platform, err := switchblade.NewPlatform(switchblade.Docker, "<github-api-token>")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Deploy an application called "my-app" onto Docker with source code
  // located at /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to the following `cf`
  // command, but running locally on your Docker daemon:
  //   cf push my-app -p /path/to/my/app
  deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
  Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

  // Assert that the deployment logs contain a line that contains the substring
  // "Installing dependency..."
  Expect(logs).To(ContainLines(ContainSubstring("Installing dependency...")))

  // Assert that the deployment results in an application instance that serves
  // "Hello, world!" over HTTP.
  Eventually(deployment).Should(Serve(ContainSubstring("Hello, world!")))

  // Delete the application from the platform.
  Expect(platform.Delete.Execute("my-app")).To(Succeed())
}
```

### Specifying buildpacks: `WithBuildpacks`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. Only use the "ruby_buildpack" and the "go_buildpack".
// This is similar to the following `cf` command:
//   cf push my-app -p /path/to/my/app -b ruby_buildpack -b go_buildpack
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithBuildpacks("ruby_buildpack", "go_buildpack").
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Specifying environment variables: `WithEnv`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to running the following `cf`
// command:
//   cf set-env my-app SOME_KEY some-value
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithEnv(map[string]string{
    "SOME_KEY": "some-value",
  }).
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Disabling internet access: `WithoutInternetAccess`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This will disable internet access for the staging
// process.
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithoutInternetAccess().
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Specifying service bindings: `WithServices`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to running the following `cf`
// commands:
//   cf create-user-provided-service my-app-my-service -p '{"password": "its-a-secret!"}'
//   cf bind-service my-app my-app-my-service
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithService(map[string]switchblade.Service{
    "my-service": {
      "password": "its-a-secret!",
    },
  }).
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Specifying a start command: `WithStartCommand`

```go
// Deploy an application called "my-app" with source code located at
// /path/to/my/app/source. This is similar to running the following `cf`
// commands:
//   cf push my-app -c "start my-app"
deployment, logs, err := platform.Deploy.
  WithStartCommand("start my-app").
  Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
```

### Retrieving runtime logs: `RuntimeLogs`

The `deployment.RuntimeLogs()` method retrieves logs from the running application
after deployment succeeds. This is useful for testing runtime behavior such as
application startup, service connections, and module loading.

```go
// Deploy an application
deployment, stagingLogs, err := platform.Deploy.Execute("my-app", "/path/to/my/app/source")
Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())

// stagingLogs contains build-time output (buildpack detection, compilation, etc.)
Expect(stagingLogs).To(ContainLines(ContainSubstring("Installing dependencies...")))

// Retrieve runtime logs (application startup, service connections, etc.)
runtimeLogs, err := deployment.RuntimeLogs()
Expect(err).NotTo(HaveOccurred())
Expect(runtimeLogs).To(ContainSubstring("Application started"))
Expect(runtimeLogs).To(ContainSubstring("Connected to Redis"))
```

**Note:** The logs returned from `platform.Deploy.Execute()` are **staging logs**
(build-time), while `deployment.RuntimeLogs()` returns **runtime logs** (post-deployment).
Use staging logs to test buildpack behavior, and runtime logs to test application behavior.

## Other utilities

### Random name generation: `RandomName`

The `switchblade.RandomName` helper can generate random names. This is useful
for keeping your applications reasonably namespaced in the shared platform. The
names generated will include the prefix `switchblade-` following by a
[ULID](https://github.com/ulid/spec).

```go
name, err := switchblade.RandomName()
if err != nil {
  log.Fatal(err)
}

fmt.Println(name) // Outputs: switchblade-<some-ulid>
```
